[AUDIO LOGO]
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
Freddy Silva with us-- a
bestselling author and leading
researcher of ancient
civilizations,
restricted history, sacred
sites and their interaction
with consciousness.
He's here to discuss his latest
work called "Scotland's Hidden
Sacred Past."
Freddy, welcome to
"Beyond Belief."
>>FREDDY SILVA:
Hello, again, George.
It's like having family, again.
>>NOORY: Why the
interest in Scotland?
>>SILVA: In Scotland, it's
because of the subtitles.
Because there's so
little known about it.
It's a mystery in itself.
If you think about
it geographically,
you think that
civilization would
have moved up from Europe--
through France and
then through Britain
all the way up to Scotland.
>>NOORY: Sure.
You would think so.
>>SILVA: It turns out
that-- it turns out
that the whole thing began
at the top of Scotland,
on the islands,
no less, and then
it kind of threaded
down towards Ireland
and then it kind of impregnated
the rest of the landmass.
So that for me
was a big red flag
that something else
was going on here.
And the fact that what
they built there--
there's over 300
temples, stone circles,
some of the most beautiful
things in Britain--
they were not native
to the territory.
They came from
very, very far away.
And there was
hardly anything that
was known about the
people who put them there
or the reason why
they were built.
So I figured, I think that's a
good making for a good mystery
so here we go, again.
>>NOORY: Have you
been to Scotland?
>>SILVA: Oh, many, many times,
it's like a second home.
>>NOORY: You like it?
>>SILVA: Love it.
Can't get enough, especially
the curmudgeonly people
who live on the islands--
people who live with fog and
dense rain all the time--
and they don't really sort
of foreigners of any kind,
but once you get
to know them, you
can trust them with your life.
>>NOORY: Mel Gibson
played the part
of William Wallace, a Scot.
>>SILVA: And he
had good hair, too.
>>NOORY: Yeah, he did.
Was that a realistic portrayal?
>>SILVA: It's pretty
good, actually.
Apart the fact, he's
a very good actor.
It's a very good portrayal.
I mean, he was a real heretic
in the real sense of the word.
>>NOORY: Is Scotland magical?
>>SILVA: Absolutely,
beyond a doubt.
I think it's one of
the most magical parts
of the world because of the--
>>NOORY: Really?
>>SILVA: --inheritance
of information
that they have at
their disposal.
I mean, the language itself
is based on Armenian, which
is one of the oldest
languages in the world, which
is a big surprise to me.
And, in fact, if you just read
the Declaration of Arbroath,
which is the de facto
Declaration of the Independence
of Scotland, they actually
talk about their origins
as coming from the
land of Scythia, which
used to be the region around
the Black Sea, which eventually
went back to Armenia.
So it wasn't a long
shot from that,
but very few people
actually know that.
So when you have your foundation
as one of the oldest languages
in the world with very
ancient traditions,
then you really can't
go wrong from there.
>>NOORY: Geographically,
how big is it--
Scotland?
>>SILVA: Oh, Scotland, I'd say,
is about the size of Vermont.
Not very big at all.
>>NOORY: Not very big.
>>SILVA: But before the
last sea level rise,
which is about 3000 BC--
sea levels went
up about 24 feet--
if you include the islands,
some of the islands
were actually mini-continents
in themselves.
So it formed a much
bigger landmass.
>>NOORY: 2,400 feet took
a lot of shoreline away.
>>SILVA: That's a
lot of shoreline.
And in some places,
some of the islands,
you could be forwardable all
the way back to the mainland,
but it was also one of
the last places in Britain
that was covered with ice.
So it makes a lot of sense
that civilization began
on the islands and
it slowly makes
its way inward because it was,
obviously, not very hospitable.
>>NOORY: How independent is
the country or is it still
truly part of the
United Kingdom, too?
>>SILVA: They're not.
When you cross the
border Into Scotland,
they're a completely
different people--
fantastic sense of
humor and you definitely
feel, just like in
Cornwall or Wales,
that these people are
genetically and historically
and culturally different.
And I, for one,
actually agree that they
should have their own
border with the English.
I'll probably get a few enemies
and few hate emails from this,
but it's actually very true.
And I think it adds
to sort of the color
of the country or the
whole region, if you like.
It's like going into
a foreign country
without having a passport.
So I, for one, am
very supportive
of the Scottish right
to self-determination.
>>NOORY: As we travel
through the region,
and I'll have you explain
to us these various areas
and their significance,
for example,
let's talk about
Scotland's megalithic past.
>>SILVA: Oh, yes.
>>NOORY: How dramatic was that?
>>SILVA: That is "beyond
belief," to coin the phrase.
>>NOORY: Perfect name.
>>SILVA: We have, for example,
on the island of Orkney,
Britain's tallest megaliths--
19 and 1/2 feet tall--
which, by the way, is a
very consistent length
for megaliths around
the British Isles,
as though someone was
reading from the same manual
all the time--
and they're still in
perfect condition.
There's a stone circle
called the Ring of Brodgar--
lovely names-- still
virtually intact
because hardly anyone has ever
gone up there and also because
in places like
the Isle of Lewis,
with their Stone
Circle of Calanais,
it was all preserved
by the peat.
So when people left the islands
during a climate change,
3,000 years ago, the
peat begins to rise up,
it covers the stones in no time
at all, and the local people
who stayed behind--
very few of them-- they
would then cut the peat.
They would stick it up
in these little pyramids.
They would make
it dry and that's
what they use today for heating.
So they thought they had a
nice little series of stones
until they cut away the
peat and little by little,
they began to realize, oh,
those towns are pretty big.
And they actually
were able to preserve,
by their natural inclination,
the very essence of what
these monuments are all about.
So we have some of the
best preserved monuments
in the British Isles, in the
extreme part of the British
Isles, and that's what
makes it very magical.
>>NOORY: Let's go to an
island called Staffa.
>>SILVA: Staffa.
>>NOORY: What is so unusual
about that and the belt
of Orion out there?
>>SILVA: Oh, my God.
If you have the stomach
for it, even on a nice day,
taking a little
fishing boat out there,
the sea is very
shallow so you're
going to get bounced around
like a bouncing ball.
And Staffa's a very tiny island.
It looks like a
series of organ pipes
that suddenly got
thrust out of the ocean.
>>NOORY: Huh.
>>SILVA: It's all of these
octagonal basalt blocks
and they literally
look like organ piles.
>>NOORY: Do they look man-made?
>>SILVA: No, no, no.
It looks man-made, it looks like
a machine, but it's all the--
it's the thrust of magma
that came out of the ocean.
It's the second
oldest rock on Earth.
And when that hot magma made of
a certain crystalline structure
hits the cold
water, it literally
solidifies in these
octagonal shapes.
So you're walking around what
look like organ pipes and it
has three caves--
two large, one small.
The main one's
called Fingal's Cave.
There's a whole
mythology about it.
And it turns out
that the guy that
was based around
this mythology, a guy
called Fingal or
Fionn man Cumhaill--
if you want to get
into the brogue, which
is really hard to
pronounce-- it turns out,
he's the guardian
into the other world.
And all of these guardians
in the other world,
like Osiris before
him in Egypt, they
were associated with Orion.
And one day when I'm
standing there, I'm thinking,
that's interesting because the
story of this benevolent giant
who was white-skinned,
which back then was very
unusual for that area because
people were darker skinned,
so he stood out.
So the myth is kind of telling
about someone who lived there
that appear to have used these
caves for a certain initiation.
So one of these days, I was
looking at the three caves
and since the stories of
Finn and the people that
work with the other
world, they're always
connected with Orion, I
figured, what if it's possible
that they chose a specific
island, out of all the others,
to do a ritual landscape
where the caves themselves
are aligned to the
belt stars of Orion?
Just like in Egypt.
So a little bit of computer
work, it didn't take that long.
I stood on top of Staffa
with the three cavers
in front of me.
And sure enough, if you
look at the horizon,
the first time that
the belt of Orion
rises above the horizon on
the winter solstice in about
3200 BC matches the--
>>NOORY: Perfect.
>>SILVA: --exact
alignment of the caves.
>>NOORY: Celestial geniuses.
>>SILVA: Unbelievable.
>>NOORY: You made a documentary
of "Scotland's Hidden Sacred
Past."
>>SILVA: Oh, yes.
>>NOORY: Let's take a
look at one of your trips
to an island of Mull.
>>SILVA: Ooh.
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
All manner of mystics
made their way to Mull
to find a bond with their god.
Particularly women, who always
found a safe haven here--
for example, the Church
of the Nine Holy Maidens
or the Hill of the Virgins,
and Island Nimban--
the Island of Women.
And men like Kenick Dalan--
a sixth century Celtic monk
with family ties to the Druids
and possibly, the
mythical rulers of island
the Tuatha Dé Danann.
Kenick built a chapel
beside a ring of trees
marking what can only be
described as a vortex.
The kind of energy
hotspot sought by mystics
for shamanic travel.
It may explain
why the monk chose
to build a chapel far
from any congregation
and in the middle of nowhere.
Oh, he wasn't the only one drawn
to this remote corner of Mull.
Around the 14th century,
there's another group
of mystics practicing
ancient systems of knowledge
and they made their way
here and created the home
for themselves.
And they were the Knights
Templar, who, in a Brotherhood,
behave like a
ministerial college.
They built a cubic
tower, inside which
lies a restricted chamber used
for an out of body ritual.
Whereby, the initiates
were described
as "raised from the dead."
And just like megalithic
temple builders before them,
the Templars, too, aligned
their temple to the stars.
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
The tower is placed at the
exotic angle of 51 degrees.
The same angle of slope of
the Great Pyramid of Giza
and the number associated with
Seshat, the Egyptian goddess
of sacred buildings.
Its Northeast wall faces
the summer solstice,
the highest position
of the light
and symbolic of the
attainment of wisdom.
Its southeast wall marks the
winter solstice, as well as
the rising of Cygnus, the
constellation of the Swan--
symbol of the divine feminine
in the era of the Templars.
And the Eastern
corner of the building
aligns to the rising of Venus on
the spring equinox, the symbol
of the risen initiate.
It also references Orion
on the winter solstice.
>>NOORY: That's fantastic.
>>SILVA: He looks just like me.
I'm going to have a chat
with my agent about this.
>>NOORY: Well, he looks a little
better than you, actually.
[LAUGHING]
>>SILVA: You're just
saying that to hurt me.
>>NOORY: How old
are those structures
we just saw in that portion?
>>SILVA: Those
are fairly recent.
They're about 12th
century, 13th century.
The Templars built
something on, perhaps,
something that was there
originally because that was not
unusual for them.
They do it everywhere
else in Europe.
They're always protecting a site
of extreme antiquity, usually
dedicated to a female deity.
In Portugal, for
example, they would
protect sites connected to
Isis or her local doppelganger.
But here, they actually built
it on a very strange location.
It was a sort of
outcrop of rock right
next to the ocean with a
fresh water way around it,
which means that if anybody
tried to raid the building
or lay siege to it, the people
would be inside the building.
except that all they had
to do is stay outside
for a couple of weeks
and you had no drinking
water because the salt goes
into the actual drinking
water from the ocean
and you die of thirst.
So there's a big chamber
right underneath it,
which archaeologists say, well,
that was obviously, a well,
but there's no way for
water to go in there.
So the only other reason
why they built that chamber
was to have this
experience of leaving
the body, which they did in
other places around Europe.
And that was also consistent
with other practices
of similar sects that
did the same thing.
When you reach a certain
level of initiation
within the Brotherhood,
on the third year,
you'd be given a narcotic.
You'd be put into this box or
a chamber below the ground,
like you're going into the
womb of the Earth Mother.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>SILVA: And then, you leave
the body for three days.
You come back three
days later completely
aware of where you've just
been, not like a dream state.
So you've actually,
physically left the body.
>>NOORY: So they had
out-of-body experiences.
>>SILVA: An induced near-death
experience, to come of it.
So it's a practice that goes
back to Japan in 8000 BC.
>>NOORY: What did
they induce that with?
>>SILVA: With poison, a
very well-timed poison,
because you get it wrong--
>>NOORY: You get
a little too much.
>>SILVA: Well, that was my
point is how did they practice?
Do you start off at 15% and
you go, well, he's dead.
Bring in the next candidate.
>>NOORY: Let's lower it.
>>SILVA: A little bit lower.
>>NOORY: He's dead.
>>SILVA: It would have been
hard to put your hand up
to volunteer, but
that's how they did it.
And that's how it was done in
the Middle East and Near East.
Even in North America, in 1890,
Native Americans up in Michigan
were still doing that.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>SILVA: And three
days later, you
come back into the
body completely groggy,
but you're totally aware
of where you've been
and all the information that
you've gathered while you've
been in the other world.
And when you leave the body--
so when you come back into the
body, you are declared risen
or you are declared alive.
That's where the concept of
living Resurrection comes from.
>>NOORY: They seem to have a
lot of knowledge of astronomy.
>>SILVA: Oh, very much so.
>>NOORY: Did they?
>>SILVA: Very much so.
It was all to do with the
ancient concept of "as above
so below."
Our ancestors were
very much aware
that the universe is alive
and the planets and the stars
even more so.
So to bring the energy of
a specific constellation
or a specific planet,
which they understood
to hold a certain
frequency, was to bestow
onto a certain point on
the Earth, the frequency
and the energy consistent
with that body.
So if you were trying to build
a temple to, say, knowledge,
you would connect with the
star Sirius or the Pleiades,
which is consistent
with every culture.
Orion is also very consistent
in this story, as well.
So the Templars were borrowing
from a very old manual when
they aligned their buildings.
To then, give the
little nod to anyone
that was walking
by, if they look
at the alignment of
the buildings, that
say the people that
live here know something
that we shouldn't talk
about in public because back
then, the church would have
killed you on the spot.
>>NOORY: Oh, absolutely.
>>SILVA: So it was a way to
do a little nod and a wink
to people who did know
about alignments because it
was a secret communication,
a secret language.
And they were following
already, a very old tradition
in the area.
>>NOORY: These
Templars, were they
the same guardians of the
Shroud of Turin-- the same ones?
>>SILVA: I think there's
a different group there.
But I really do believe--
and I think it was Michael
Bagian, I think it was,
who wrote a very interesting
book about the Shroud,
basing on the fact that
it's the image of Jacques
de Molay, which is one of
the last Templar masters--
>>NOORY: Not Jesus.
>>SILVA: --that has a very
close resemblance facially--
>>NOORY: To Jesus.
>>SILVA: --and to the way that
he was actually positioned.
>>NOORY: Who are the
Tuatha Dé Danann?
>>SILVA: Ah, now we're
getting to the deep territory.
>>NOORY: How'd I
do on that name?
>>SILVA: Very good.
You can't pronounce
Gaelic very easily.
If you can master that,
you're already halfway there.
>>NOORY: You trained me well.
>>SILVA: Tuatha Dé Danann.
Very good.
>>NOORY: Who are they?
>>SILVA: They are a very
interesting people who
were mythologized by the
incoming Catholic Church
and they were turned into
fairy folk, little people, very
annoying because they wanted
to get the Irish people away
from eulogizing and following
this ancient race of people who
follow the divine bloodline.
And I followed the trail
all the way across Europe.
So in about 3000 to 5000 BC--
not sure about the timing--
they arrive on the
coast of Ireland
as the Tuatha Dé Danann.
They were very tall--
unusual for the region
despite the fact,
we have Norwegians
not far away--
very light-skinned,
blond, blue-eyed,
and they stood out like a sore
thumb from everybody else.
And they were said to be
part of a divine bloodline.
And they were
totally understanding
about mathematics, astronomy,
the movements of the planets,
and how these things
influence the being.
And they also carried a
very ancient tradition
of mysticism, which led to
the development of the self
and the spiritual body.
So I traced them all the way
back through France all the way
through Europe through Denmark.
Eventually, they go to
a place called Scythia.
It's one of the biggest
kingdoms in Syria--
>>NOORY: Scythia.
>>SILVA: --in about 5,000 years
ago around Bulgaria, Romania,
Ukraine, and, what
was then, Armenia--
one of the oldest
places on Earth.
So that was all
Scythian territory.
And there, they are
called the Tuath Dé Danu.
So as language moves
geographically,
it changes with the--
>>NOORY: Changes with
the dialect-- yeah.
>>SILVA: So Tuatha Dé Danu were
part of a divine bloodline who
were half human, half divine.
>>NOORY: Are they still around?
>>SILVA: They are now
the Tuatha Dé Danann
and they're also part of
the Scandinavian race,
the Caucasian race.
>>NOORY: Oh, really?
>>SILVA: Of course,
it's very diffused now.
>>NOORY: Extremely.
>>SILVA: It's
completely diffused.
We're talking thousands
of years of development
because before that,
you trace them back
to the Armenian Highlands
and they are your friends
and mine-- the people of Anu,
also known as the Anunnaki.
>>NOORY: Were they giants?
>>SILVA: They were 8 and
1/2 feet tall apparently,
according to the Egyptians
who are also part
of that same race, as well.
And it's actually written
on one of the temple walls.
I believe, it's at Edfu.
It gives you a specific height
of 8 and 1/2 feet, which
is about the height
of the skeletons
that we find in
the giant's graves
throughout Great Britain.
>>NOORY: Freddy, who
are and were the Druids?
>>SILVA: The Druids were
very interesting people.
Druids-- I hope I'm not
offending any Gaelic people
here-- the Druids.
>>NOORY: No, you're doing great.
Better than me.
>>SILVA: A couple of
pints of Guinness,
you can speak
Gaelic very easily.
Basically, they were-- the
name originally translated,
there's been a lot of
argument about this.
I found one of the oldest
translations of the name.
It means to bring
into the circle.
They were part of
a mystical group
of people that held a
certain secret circle, just
like the Templars
and everybody else.
>>NOORY: Good people?
Evil people?
>>SILVA: Oh, very good people.
They were protectors
of ancient mysticism
that leads to the development
of the spiritual self.
Nothing wrong with that at all.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>SILVA: And they
dressed in white robes.
They, again, understood
the stars, mathematics.
Julius Caesar was absolutely
frightened by them
and fascinated by
them in equal term.
>>NOORY: Why frightened?
>>SILVA: Because they
could do things and, like,
change the weather and
frighten the hell out
of entire Roman legions.
>>NOORY: Change the weather?
>>SILVA: Completely
change the weather just
by using the power of intent,
focusing it, and making
the Romans run away.
In fact, Julius Caesar had
a problem recruiting people
to go and fight the Druids
when they were finally
holed up in Wales.
Even the women joined
the Druids and said,
"we're going to get
rid of the Romans."
And for several
centuries, the Romans
could go nowhere near them.
They frighten the
hell out of them.
And one of the things
that they learned
was to use the power
of sound to paralyze
the Romans during battle.
So they're just-- it's
like the Japanese,
like the samurai, with
that sound that they do.
>>NOORY: [MAKING SAMURAI SOUND]
>>SILVA: They [NON-ENGLISH WORD]
and it brings down
the atmospheric barometer
pressure of your blood.
And when it does
that, it induces
sort of a catatonic
fear in your opponents.
That's why they do that.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
>>SILVA: So it gives
you just a few seconds
before the Romans
finally woke up
and they realized that
they're actually being
hit upon by arrows and swords.
Incredibly, it's all
about the power of intent
and how to manipulate nature.
>>NOORY: They understood
the mind, didn't they?
>>SILVA: Yeah.
And that's the one thing that
connects all these people.
Their technology literally
was understanding
the laws of nature,
harnessing the nature,
and then bending the rules
within the rules themselves,
and that's what
turned them into gods.
>>NOORY: Freddy,
what was so unusual
about the island of Iona?
>>SILVA: Oh, the fact
that 60 kings and queens
are buried there on an
island 3 miles by 1.
It's suspicious.
>>NOORY: 60 kings and queens?
>>SILVA: Including Macbeth.
Oh, yes.
Everybody wanted
to be buried there.
>>NOORY: Why on that island?
>>SILVA: Exactly.
Another one of those
little mysteries.
It's been sacred as
long as we can remember.
And the original name Hiona
is an Armenian phrase,
which means the "Island of the
Noble Clan of Armenian People"
or, if you look it from
another point of view,
the Island of the
Noble Clan of Orion."
And I thought, that's
very interesting.
The place where
you have the Abbey
at the moment-- the
famous Abbey of Iona--
they're used to be a stone
circle with 360 stones.
The whole place is one
great big energetic hotspot.
And ever since we've known
the island's history,
people have gone there to do
all kinds of interesting things
to do with energy manipulation,
moving the laws of physics,
and literally, establishing
groups who are very ecumenical.
The women were allowed there.
They had equal
footing as the men.
And everybody got
along just fine.
The Druids were there, as well.
The Caldi moved there in 35 AD.
>>NOORY: Seems like the
in place to be, huh?
>>SILVA: A very good
place to be because it's
about the rock and the
energy of the rock.
It's mostly red granite--
one of the most
powerful rock on Earth.
A lot of quartz, a lot of
iron, a lot of magnetite,
and it's the same elements
that you find in a human body.
So it's as though, you're
standing on the rock
version of the human body.
So they're allowed to do
all kinds of mystical things
in that island free
from, well, free
from the English for one thing.
And certainly, the Scots were
very much into this anyway.
A lot of the Kings were.
They let them get along and
do their own perambulations.
>>NOORY: In your
documentary, "Scotland's
Hidden Sacred Past," you tell
a story of a monk, Odhrán.
>>SILVA: Odhrán, yeah.
>>NOORY: Let's take
a look at that.
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>SILVA: Beside the Abbey,
an overlooked chapel
marks the rising of Venus on
the spring equinox in 37 AD.
Inside this humble building,
the [NON-ENGLISH] practice
their magic.
As a monk named
Odhrán, a companion
of the notorious Saint
Columba, found out for himself.
There is a legend that
the walls of the chapel
came down as fast as they went
up, as though by evil magic,
and only when a person
was buried alive
would the stones stay put.
Now, Odhrán being
the devout Catholic
he was, thought this all pagan
mumbo jumbo, but to his credit,
he volunteered to be buried
alive to prove the point.
And three days later,
the Earth was removed,
Odhrán raised himself, and much
to everyone's bewilderment,
he declared that all that
had been said and preached
about hell was a complete joke.
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
Odhrán had himself an
out-of-body experience.
He found himself
in the other world
and returned to tell the tale
of how the universe really
is rather than how it is
portrayed by religion.
You see, the chapel sits
on a hotspot of energy
that is capable of
facilitating such a journey.
It's perhaps, the most secret
of all esoteric rituals.
And it was practiced for at
least 6,000 years from here
to North America to India
and the Middle East.
And the concept of
walls going down and up
is really a description of
the change of perception
experienced during the ritual.
You literally experience
the dematerialization
of the physical world and with
it, the temporary departure
of the soul and its
eventual return to the body.
And Eastern mystics called it
[NON-ENGLISH] or, as we've come
to know it via the
Essenes, "the way."
In essence, the [NON-ENGLISH]
practiced the same near-death
ritual once performed inside
the box in the Great Pyramid
of Giza or the restricted
chamber of the Pyramid of Unas
at Saqqara and many other
restricted rooms around
the world associated
with this initiation,
which became known as the
"Living Resurrection."
>>NOORY: I love the architecture
of those buildings, Freddy.
>>SILVA: It's magical.
I mean, that was part of
the art that they practiced,
was the different
use of geometry
and the relationship of elements
and the careful use of stone.
The choice of stone was
actually what created
the special environment.
So you can go from one
building to the next,
it will look almost
identical, but the two
will have a completely
different effect on you.
And it's all about the
relationship of geometry.
It's like going to Giza.
You have three
pyramids-- big pyramids.
Each one of them has their
innate angle and slope.
Every person will have
a different experience
in the little
pyramid as they will
have in the middle pyramid
and the big pyramid.
And it's all to do with the
relationship of those angles.
It has a specific effect
on your state of awareness
and that was part of what
the mystery teachings were
all about and why they
were so protected.
And people took the teachings
today grave, if necessary,
rather than give them away.
>>NOORY: Let's move to
the Island of Sardinia.
Tell me its relationship
to Scotland.
>>SILVA: Well, here's the
funny thing about this project,
and this is something
that was taught to me when
I was 12 by my history teacher.
If you want to find the
origin of something,
go back at least
80 years and then
go somewhere else to find out
what was going on in the place
you're examining.
So I had this
half-finished hypothesis,
and it's not even in
the book at this point.
So I'm off to Sardinia
and I'm walking around
and looking at things
and going, wait a minute.
These are the very things
that we have in Scotland
that archaeologists say
shouldn't be in Scotland.
We didn't know where
they came from,
and here they are
3,000 years earlier
being built in Sardinia.
>>NOORY: Now, you know
where they came from.
>>SILVA: The same mythology,
the same construction method,
the same associations to Orion.
The giants are buried
all over Sardinia.
I mean, the locals, you sit
in, not a pub, like a cafe,
and they're more
than happy to say,
we're very proud to tell
you of the history of where
we come from.
The giants used to have
this as a big colony.
And in the last days of
Atlantis-- and they mention
this so freely without any
sign of any embarrassment--
in the last days of Atlantis,
there used to be a colony here.
The giants are everywhere.
There are pyramids everywhere.
And they're absolutely right.
And there's a whole vow
of silence over the island
because these people
are threatened,
not just by the police,
they're threatened
by the archaeologists
and the church
to mention pyramids or giants.
And when they find them,
they just get removed
and they are threatened
with their jobs.
That, you'll never work
on this island again,
if you talk about
what we've just seen.
And that got me interested
immediately because suddenly, I
realized that whatever
was happening in Scotland,
first took place in Sardinia.
And the connection was not
just a mythology, not just
a construction
method, but the DNA
of the people that
were in Sardinia
eventually becomes
part of the Scotland.
And 24% of the DNA in
Scottish people today
comes from Sardinia and that
comes from somewhere else.
>>NOORY: Now, how did
the Italian influence
occur and take over Sardinia?
>>SILVA: Oh, that came much
later because, I mean, Italy,
obviously, now governs Sardinia.
It's like a holiday
island for the Italians.
But that comes much more
later in the historical era.
I believe, it was
in the 18th century
when finally, it
became part of Italy.
And then, Corsica, at the
top, becomes part of France.
>>NOORY: What is Dwarfie Stane?
>>SILVA: Now, the Dwarfie
Stane is an incredible big,
well, it's not a boulder.
It's a big slab of
Devonian red stone
that sits by itself
in a valley on one
of the islands of the
archipelago of Orkney.
So where--
>>NOORY: Natural?
>>SILVA: Very natural.
Although, you wouldn't--
when you go there, you go,
it's very suspicious.
It looks like a
little spaceship.
It reminds me a lot of
the rock boats of the gods
that they have
flying back in Japan.
But it is very natural.
It was dragged not far
away from the cliffs.
It's like nothing
you've ever seen.
It's a big slab, which has
been hollowed out by hand
into this very narrow chamber.
It's about 3 feet high
by about 2 feet wide.
I have to crawl in there.
And then when you go in,
there's a little chamber, which
is like a half moon chamber.
>>NOORY: Don't you
get claustrophobic?
>>SILVA: It began
to get a little bit
interesting in there.
I don't do well with
confined spaces,
but my curiosity gets
the better of me.
And there's a point
where you think,
maybe I shouldn't
be in here, but--
>>NOORY: Yeah, get out.
>>SILVA: --to write about it,
I've got to experience it.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>SILVA: And then, the
other side, you got--
>>NOORY: That's
admirable of you.
>>SILVA: --another chamber that
has, like, a picture window.
And you think, why is
there a picture window
and what looks like
a bolster for someone
lying down with their
head on this rock bolster?
And the angle at which it aligns
to is precisely due West--
and I mean, it's
exactly due West--
and there's a big stone
plug that fits exactly
into the hole, leaving
just enough, a little bit,
of light and enough of a
sliver of light for air.
So it wasn't meant for
anyone to be buried.
It was meant for
something to be inside.
But it was meant for the plug to
be taken out at a certain time
to allow the person to come out.
Because when the Vikings found
it, much later on in history,
they thought there might
be treasure inside.
And the plug was
in the hole so they
had to dig a hole from
the top to go inside
and they found nothing.
There was no one in there.
>>NOORY: Was there
much maneuvering room?
>>SILVA: Not much.
Not for a 6 foot 5 guy.
Even though it's associated
with giants, again.
>>NOORY: I would think.
>>SILVA: But I did--
when I began to
sort of breathe, you
could hear the heart and the
breathing being very labored.
And I thought, I'm
getting a sense
that I know the note in here.
And you do a very, very
low note to the point,
you're almost like this.
It's almost hurting your throat.
And I began to do it
for about two minutes
without taking a breath
and suddenly, you realize,
you're leaving the body.
There's only one other
place in the world
I know that that is
possible and that's
the box in the King's Chamber.
And it has exactly the
same purpose and exactly
the same note.
So whoever had been working
in that place in Egypt also
had worked there in Scotland.
>>NOORY: Right, or they sent the
knowledge of it or something.
>>SILVA: Exactly because
a lot of the place
names of these sacred
sites in Orkney
actually have an Egyptian
background, as well.
And, in fact, they actually
mean exactly what they are.
I mean, there's the stone
circle just up the road
from the Dwarfie Stane,
Ring of Brodgar--
lovely name.
Brodgar in Egyptian means
"the enclosure of the sun."
And that stone circle actually
is an astronomical site
which depicts the houses of
the sun throughout the year.
So what's the Egyptian language
doing up there, I wonder?
>>NOORY: Well, you
had an opportunity
to talk to Regina Meredith on
"Open Minds" about Sardinia
and some of their sites.
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>SILVA: And if you were
standing here in 8500 BC,
you would get a
perfect alignment
with the Equinox sunrise.
And an hour before
that, you'd see
Venus rising just before it.
And you see this again and
again around the world.
And anytime you see
that kind of chamber,
that's usually a place that
was used for initiation.
>>REGINA MEREDITH: And what I
find interesting about that is
then, we are talking about--
and I say the word "cults"
very loosely--
but groups of individuals
that had knowledge
that were aligned
with the sun, which
is, in the classic
hermetic sense,
those, the shining ones,
with the advanced knowledge
would be the ones more prone
to aligning their structures
toward the sun rather than
the moon cults, for example.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
Exactly.
>>MEREDITH: Ah.
>>SILVA: And Venus was always--
Venus rising before
the Equinox sunrise
was always the mark
of the risen initiate.
Someone who had gone into
a special place like this,
they would have gone in because,
well, the frequencies are here.
They're different on the inside.
They would have been the
ones to become much more--
I want to say--
tempered by the frequencies
inside the chamber
because they would have actually
been beneficial to them.
And we know that these
frequencies actually
align with the human body
in a way that drives down
your state of thinking to a
place where it's not thinking.
But you're doing--
>>MEREDITH: Right.
Going into a more alpha
state or even a delta state
of consciousness.
So you're saying that
this is positioned
in really critical lay line--
>>SILVA: Oh, definitely.
>>MEREDITH: --matrices.
>>SILVA: Every single sacred
site on the face of the Earth
is aligned exactly where the
Earth's telluric currents
happen to be.
Whether they were
manipulated there
or whether they were
already there to begin with,
that's another story.
It's a chicken
and egg situation.
But certainly, they mark the
way the X marks the spot.
And anybody who's
sensitive and can't afford
$20,000 pieces of equipment
will actually pick up this stuff
and a $20,000 piece of
equipment will do it, too.
It's just a lot cheaper
if you just sit here
and actually, get a sense
that there's something
unusual about this place.
>>MEREDITH: So chicken or egg.
You're saying that the shaman
of the day or the priests
of the day understood that
this had a particular ley line
pattern here that was
beneficial for building this?
So you're saying by
evidence that it's built,
we know that the
ley lines are here.
>>SILVA: Both.
>>NOORY: Fascinating place.
Why were you
holding an umbrella?
>>SILVA: The Sardinians
were apologizing.
They said, we have
never had this much rain
ever historically on the
island and here we are filming.
And somehow, the
technicians, the guy
managed to get three
episodes out of this.
It was hard work.
I mean, we had great
conversations with plop, plop,
plop, plop, plop.
Well, great, cut, but we
can't hear what you're saying.
>>NOORY: And that
was all on Sardinia.
>>SILVA: Yes, Sardinia
is incredible.
I need to go back there and
finish the job because there's
so much going on.
>>NOORY: What's the
population on that island?
>>SILVA: I don't know,
but it's very sparse.
I mean, you either-- you have
Cagliari at the bottom, which
is the capital, and Abruzzo
at the north and between that,
there's not really
much going on,
very small villages, and I
kind of like it that way.
And people who know
things, their grandparents
and their parents, will
volunteer information
because it's part
of the folklore
and that's what really helps us.
I mean, for example, they
have an entire culture.
They're called the
Nuragic culture.
And I can't find any historian
or any archaeologist that
will explain to me,
what is Nuragic mean?
They say, well, we don't know.
Well, why did you name your
entire culture of your island
the Nuragic culture?
And they can't explain it.
Well, a year later of research,
I began to learn Armenian.
Found that the
"nurag" is actually
a Holy person or a legate.
And the people that said
that they built these temples
in Sardinia, like the round
towers that we find there
and in Scotland and those giant
graves where no giants are
buried, they said, yeah, these
were a special spiritual group
of people that were
understanding of the stars
and they were also priests,
so they're astronomer priests.
Well, that's what a
"nurag" means in Armenian.
So there's the
Armenian connection
now between the movement
of people in Sardinia.
And also, their DNA
is also found there
and it's also found in Scotland.
So now, we have three stepping
stones connecting these places.
>>NOORY: Freddy, tell us
about the Ring of Brodgar.
>>SILVA: The Ring
of Brodgar, it's,
like, you feel like someone up
there wrote "Lord of the Rings"
from these names.
Ring of Brodgar is wonderful.
It's not situated
at the place where
you'd expect sort
of a big astrolabe
to be because that's what it is.
It marks the solar
and lunar calendars
and attracts the stars.
It should be a bit higher up, it
should be on more level ground,
but they shifted it
further just to the south,
just enough, to make
sure that everything
calibrates with the horizon.
But in the middle
of the stone circle,
it marks the exact 59th
parallel of latitude.
So they are very--
that's not a question, why were
they marking this very exact
parallel?
It comes with its own
mystical story of giants
who were turned to stone.
And the idea is that
there was a fiddler that
sprang up a very lusty
tune on his fiddle one day.
And this giant had to
get back to their home
before the sun came up,
but they got so distracted
by the tune and the dancing
that they forgot the sunrise
and they get turned to stone.
And you hear this
story again and again.
And the thing is, the
name Brodgar in Armenian
actually means
dance song stones.
So the mythology
is actually named
after the name of
the site, which
is based on Armenian language.
So again, you have a
mixture of cultures
on this completely windswept
island off the north
coast of Scotland, which the
site itself took 166,000 man
hours to create.
They had to level the bedrock.
They had to build--
it's the biggest stone
circle in the whole
of Europe, I believe.
If not, the British Isles.
>>NOORY: Is that called
the Stenness Stone Circle
or is that something else?
>>SILVA: Stenness
is the one just down
the hill, which is a little
bit smaller and priceless.
But it's part of
three stone circles.
The third one,
hardly anyone even
knows it's there because
the stones had been pilfered
for the local farmyard.
But together, they
form an alignment,
which, of course, two
big stone circles,
one little one slightly
offset from the other, which
is a complete mirror image of
the first rising of Orion's
belt over Orkney in
a natural landscape
bowl of the horizon in 5300 BC.
So we have an exact date of
when these people were there.
>>NOORY: Lía Fáil, what is that?
>>SILVA: The Lía Fáil-- the
Sacred Stone of Islands.
Now, that's a whole
sort of story in itself.
>>NOORY: They've got
magical stones everywhere
on this island.
>>SILVA: Absolutely
because you see,
the stones wouldn't
just-- you didn't just
go and get an ordinary stone
off the side of the road.
You'd have to go
sometimes 400 miles
to get the right stone with
the right chemical composition
in order to be put in
the exact place where
the Earth's telluric currents
just happened to cross.
Now, in the old days, we
could figure this out.
And you could speak to the
Hopi or the Aboriginal people
and they'll say,
oh, I know where
it is because I can see them,
I can feel them right there,
and they can.
Now, when you and I forget
about these natural abilities
and we forget where
the energy is,
they would then mark
where X happens to be.
So the stone with its
magnetite and its iron
and its crystalline
structure, when
it's anchored into that
particular electromagnetic
current, the current
charges the stone.
So if you are there
at the right moment,
at the right time
when it hasn't been
this charge for a long time--
and a lot of the thousands
will tell you this--
you go up to the
stone and you think,
this stone wants to talk to me.
It has something to say.
>>NOORY: Talking stones.
>>SILVA: The stones want
to-- it's like a computer.
And you go up to it, and
I've done this so many times
foolishly, and I just
put my hand on the stone.
I get one hell of a belt.
For the next 15 minutes,
you can't feel your
entire forearm.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>SILVA: You get
an electric shock.
And then, you can't stop
talking because all you can see
is this vision because--
>>NOORY: Is it
transmitting stuff to you?
>>SILVA: The stone, the quartz,
it's just like a computer.
The silica in the stone
remembers everything around it.
You come along and you connect
with it, whether physically
or through telepathy.
You download the
information, and then
you start writing about it,
and you go, well, I can't just
say this in a book.
I've got to back
this up with facts.
And then, you spend a year
researching the local history
and it's right there.
So the stone gives
you the information,
you then go and double
check it, and it actually
conforms to the local folklore.
And boom, now you've
got the backup
to what you've just seen.
And this is why they did this
stuff because these stones are
like mnemonic devices.
They record everything.
And that's why the
Egyptians, like for the core
of the pyramids, the stones
didn't come there by it.
They came 400 miles from down
the Nile and now we know why.
They were very specific about
this natural technology.
>>NOORY: You have to have
the right kind of stone.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Kilmartin
Glen, what is that?
>>SILVA: Kilmartin
Glen is beautiful.
It was very important
for the Templars who
put one of their
three main sites
when they escaped to Scotland.
It's also one of
the oldest places
in the Scottish mainland.
So as the weather's
changing, the cultures
are moving off the islands now
onto the mainland of Scotland.
It has some of the oldest sacred
sites in the mainland Scotland
and also, the greatest
concentration.
So there's a whole valley
and a whole plain just full
of mounds, passage
chambers, and yes, they've
got burial sites there, as well.
And the biggest
concentration of rocks,
which are carved with all manner
of spirals and, like, circles
and ripples and little
cups and marks and it's
as though, it was a place
for understanding the stars.
Because you go there and
stand next to these big stones
and you look up at
the sky and the stone,
you think, they're
trying to tell you
something about the sky here.
There's nothing
written about this.
It's a complete mystery.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>SILVA: But the original one,
the precursor to these stones,
is actually in Sardinia in the
back of a bed and breakfast.
It's still standing
there to this very day.
>>NOORY: Let's get a
very close up experience
from the Ring of Brodgar
from Matias de Stefano
who talks about it.
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>MATIAS DE STEFANO:
I went to the stones
and I put just aside
one of the stones,
like, if each one of the
stones were a person,
and I felt part of that circle.
And I heard a voice in
between the stones saying,
"we are here to watch you."
And I said, so
where do I belong?
And they said, "in the center."
So I started to walk to
the center of the stones,
and I got to the middle of
it, and suddenly, I kind of
accepted that I had
to be in the center.
So I am the center.
And suddenly, the
stones started to say,
"Every circle has a center.
With our center,
there is no circle.
With our circle,
there is no center.
So you are never alone and
your work is with the team,
but the team is to surround you.
The team is to hold
everything to be a sphere.
And you mark the center.
Where do we go?
I am."
When I said this,
something in me
started to see every
one of my lives
and every one of the stones
became each one of me,
of myself, staring at me.
Not other people.
It was just my soul watching me.
And every stone was
one of my lives.
And I saw all of them.
And they started to come to
me and becoming me and saying,
"We are the circle
that holds who you are.
So don't expect for others
to be in that circle.
We are that circle that
puts you in the center."
So it was very
healing, that moment,
in which my soul kind of let
itself die from all the weight
that it was waiting for being
in the center for other people.
Like, the responsibility
of being seen by others,
but they said the only
ones from which you
have to feel that
you are being seen
is ourselves, which is yourself
in different timelines.
>>NOORY: Freddy, it sounds like
he had some kind of epiphany
with the stones, too.
>>SILVA: The good thing about
these very out of the way
places, which take
effort to get their,
cost of fortune to fly there,
and then you get bad weather
when you get there, is
the fact that-- and this
is very specific, not just of
Orkney, but even more specific
of the Isle of Lewis
where we have some stone
circles, which, unless you
know how to read the map,
you won't find them.
And they're some of
my favorite places
because they've been totally
unaffected by war, human folly
of any other kind of problem.
So if the stones
remember everything--
>>NOORY: Almost pristine.
>>SILVA: You just
go to these places
and it's like you're
meeting your family.
I mean, I can't
even tell you how--
I never get bored
looking at these things.
And I've taken
people on tours there
and it's hard to peel
them off the stones.
They literally become
part of the stone.
And I've watched them change,
literally, within a week
and they become completely
different people.
It's like they
recognize who they
are, what they're
doing here, but it's
a very personal journey.
It's though-- and my advice is,
go in there expecting nothing.
If you go there expecting
something to happen,
it won't happen.
Go in there with an open
mind and ask a question.
For example, my usual one
is, what's this really about?
Because my purpose is to
be a teacher to others.
I have to know my trade in
order to be a good teacher
to somebody else.
So I just say,
what is this about?
And then, there'll
be one stone that--
like all of them, they'll just
stand out and they'll say,
"come over here."
And I'll go, really?
>>NOORY: Freddy.
>>SILVA: And I go, Freddy.
I'm not sure they
even know my name.
And I'll go and stand there.
I just put my back to the stone.
And before I realize it,
an hour's disappeared.
I think that I've been
standing next to the stone
for five seconds.
And then, I'm just
writing everything down.
I thought, this is
really incredible stuff.
And it leads on to
another year of research.
I mean, it's a great location
in which to really just download
information.
And you don't even
have to believe it.
I don't want anybody
to believe this.
I want to go and experience it
for yourself because this is
why the places were built.
And there's one in Lewis that
I'm very specific about
called [NON-ENGLISH]..
It's original name in Armenian
means "the place of seeing."
And it's the most
important stone circle
in the whole island and that's
where the priests used to go
to do their vision quests.
And that's why they
gave it their name.
>>NOORY: Magical.
>>SILVA: And that's why
you go to these places,
to have this
interdimensional experience.
>>NOORY: Freddy, where can
people see your documentary
and get your books?
>>SILVA: Well, they
can go on "Gaia."
They can go on my website--
invisibletemple.com-- and you'll
be there for a long, long time.
Eight books, 14
documentaries, and there's
another one in the
pipeline somewhere.
Never a boring moment.
>>NOORY: How would you rate
that area of Sardinia compared
to other places on the planet?
>>SILVA: Original.
They're all completely original.
Sardinia stands up by
itself because it's
one of the highest
concentrations of the most
ancient DNA in the
whole of Europe.
And its connections to
Armenia extend the story
even further back
into pre-history.
So it's part of another
developing, eye-opening series
in this quest to
try and find out
what the ancients were up to.
>>NOORY: Super.
Freddy, thanks for being
on "Beyond Belief."
>>SILVA: Always a pleasure.
>>NOORY: These mystical
areas are truly remarkable.
Much more than one
would ever expect.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching Beyond Belief."
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]